everybody welcome to impact theory
you're here because you believe that
human potential is nearly limitless but
you know that having potential is not
the same as actually doing something
with it so our goal with the show and
company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that will help you
actually make good on your potential I'm
really excited about today's guest
because he thinks about [__] deeply he
crawls inside important ideas like an
intellectual archaeologist and routes
around grubby fists and all until he
finds the narrative thread that makes
those ideas accessible in an era well
people will tell you the only thing that
matters is entertaining people he's
built a wildly successful YouTube
channel with roughly 1 million
subscribers that proves there's still a
huge market for depth his powerful essay
is on an absurdly wide range of topics
from Batman and Rihanna to politics and
moral issues provide viewers with the
kinds of insights that can truly shape
one's worldview recognising his unique
gifts MSNBC snatched him up to produce
for them when he was still in his early
20s and the Discovery Channel tapped him
to write and host a show on their
digital network seeker daily where he
produced a hoard of breakout content he
is in my opinion everything that is good
about the Internet and he's proving that
creators from anywhere armed with a
simple camera and a willingness to work
their asses off cannot only make a
living as content producers but they can
alter the very direction and flow of
cultural discourse please help me in
welcoming the man who's entirely
self-made treasure trove of content has
been viewed more than 48 million times
by people all over the world the creator
of the smash hit YouTube series the nerd
writer Evan Pugh Shaq
[Music]
what an introduction dude I want that on
my tombstone
I would love it cool man well honestly
that the intro is sort of the the hurdle
for bringing people on the show it's
like am I willing to do enough research
about the person to be able to write
that yeah am I gonna get something out
of it and researching you was really
awesome
so Jason Silva put you on my radar
Jason's a great guy and I am eternally
indebted to him for that and not being
super familiar with the essay format on
YouTube was really really interesting to
see the diverse range of topics that you
cover which of course then led me to
trying to find out like what is the
mission statement that you guys have
yeah
so the concept of cultivating worldview
what exactly does that mean well it was
something that launched the whole idea
of the show and that was that when I had
graduated college at Boston I had this
very strange sort of frustrating feeling
that I knew a lot of things but I just
didn't know how they all connected and I
felt like I was constantly consuming
contradictory information and it just
really bothered me because I felt that I
didn't have a foothold on my own
knowledge and so worldview for me was a
kind of organizing principle of how do
all the things that you know connect how
do you build a worldview in which you're
building bridges between the different
spheres of things that you're learning
and so cultivating is what you know and
how those things connect and that's what
the show is in it you know I want to
show people how I built my worldview not
so that they can adopt it but so that
there can be a template for doing it
yourself hmm I love though that you've
said this is actually really interesting
I want to go into this but you've said
that it's okay if you want to adopt my
worldview I think that's how it starts
you steel down video that's how I did it
so walk me through that cuz I think
seeing the way that you do it is is
maybe it's certainly as important maybe
even
more important than the actual worldview
that you present which is very coherent
and very compelling but how how does
that process look if it starts with
stealing somebody else's while you get
the you know momentum going like how do
you progress beyond that well you have
to learn how to think I mean that's the
first part of it Ralph Waldo Emerson
who's you know one of the early thinkers
that that really blew my mind said that
a young man Revere's men of genius
because to speak truly they are more
himself than he is and that is the
perfect sort of way to think about being
young and trying to you know trying to
build build a mindset for yourself as
that you know when you read the great
philosophers or just the great thinkers
about anything
what is so enlightening about them is
that they knew how to say these things
they articulated them in a certain way
that when I read them and a lot of
Emerson almost all of Emerson when I'm
reading it it was like this series of
revelations where it was like yes that
is what I was thinking about this this
is this is what I want to say about it
and so Emerson is right he was more me
than I was at that moment because he was
articulating those things so you know
you start off by adopting the beautiful
thinkers and beautiful articulate errs
of the past and then with by just
applying a little bit of critical
thinking you're going to sort of carve
out your own statue you're you're going
to carve away the things that you know
don't mesh with you and you're going to
add on the things that do and that's a
long process of cultivating something
that that you can sort of have and use
to judge all incoming information
against yeah it's interesting because
without sort of that eloquence was sort
of how I put things together in my own
head about you know people often talk
about thinking unique thoughts right and
that's like a big obsession it's not a
unique thought whatever and I thought
wow I'm not sure that I ever really have
unique thoughts what I'm trying to do is
take in enough information that I can
make unique connections right so what
you're saying about paring away the
sculpture until only you remains
actually pretty beautiful
was it Mike
Angela said that like I don't you know I
carve away the pieces that aren't David
or whatever and Li you know until it's
form is finally revealed it's actually a
really interesting way of thinking about
it why do you think cultivating a
worldview is useful I think it's useful
because it provides a foundation through
which you can act you know it's hard to
act in the world in a intentional way
without having a base or a foundation in
which you feel stable is stable and and
and you're comfortable with that was the
kind of anxiety that cosmic anxiety that
I was feeling at that time when I was a
little bit younger was that I don't know
how to move forward here because I don't
feel like I'm stepping on something that
sought I feel like I'm stepping on so
many clouds you know and it's it's sort
of it was disorienting and so when you
start figuring out what your worldview
is which is just another way to say when
you start to figure out you know what
your morals are and what your philosophy
is as a individual person but also how
that relates to the world the way
forward looks a lot more clear because
it almost becomes inevitable what you
have to do when you make a moral
decision you're making a decision based
on how you should it's based on how you
should act so you know once you once you
start to get a handle on it I think the
world becomes a little bit less scary
and your actions in it become a little
bit more certain and intentional I think
that's what we're all trying to do
that's what I was trying to do back it's
really great answer so I love that
metaphor that you're using of it feeling
like you're stepping on clouds sort of
that squishy marshy like am I about to
fall through I kind of vibe with Jack
very much I had in my early 20s for sure
do you know Pete Carroll yeah so I'm not
a big sports guy but he happened to be
the coach of USC and then the Seahawks
and Ingram Tacoma and having gone to USC
made my radar and then do you read
angela Duckworth's
book grit I haven't so he comes up in
that and she really lays out his
philosophy so he was the coach of
New England the New England Patriots and
didn't do well ends up getting fired
goes to college football ends up
crushing it at USC and then going on to
the Seahawks and winning the Super Bowl
and people ask him like what the hell
like how did you go from getting fired
to having such a crazy career in college
and then back to the NFL as a winning
coach and he said somebody told me you
lack a life philosophy and he said it
was really realizing that I needed a
life philosophy I needed that base that
you're talking about to have the the
firmness under my feet the way forward
as you said you know like the way
forward becomes really clear and I think
when people are really thinking about
like so the question I get asked more
than anything how do I find my passion
yeah and which actually may be sort of a
side step to what you're really doing on
your show that's that's a crazy silly
question I think I mean that's the
question I hear a lot too I mean and I
think that's something that we're
inculcated to think about when we're
young and in college or in the schooling
system how do you find your passion like
it's something that you're going to find
under a rock which is not the way it's
do I think the great tragedy of modern
society is that there is no thing for
every individual person you have
aptitudes like if you can draw then you
have aptitude for that and there are
certain things biologically that you're
going to be given and you'll be lucky to
have them but in terms of finding your
passion everything in modern society
because it does not it does not push you
in a certain direction that is that's
what being in a free society means is a
choice and because it's a choice it's a
tragedy it's so you know it's so
arbitrary you know and so when you say
it's a tragedy honestly it's a tragedy
because you know in a society where you
know you're pushed to do a certain thing
if you're you know 300 years ago if your
father was a cobbler you were going to
be a cobbler right you you know didn't
have many prospects outside of that but
you didn't have a chance to fail at
choosing something in your life you were
going to be a cobbler your identity was
stable from the start you know for us in
this society where we are not only not
told what to be but we're not told how
to learn what to be which is
they we're not told how to learn what
your passion is it only comes down to a
choice and the choice is arbitrary and
abetting people and myself we there's a
there's a loser
there's a difficulty in overcoming that
fact because we want to believe and the
messaging we're given is that there is
something out there there's a passion
out there for you that you have to
discover and wait for it to like a seal
itself like a soulmate yeah but you but
the the real truth is that you just have
to choose choosing you know is when it's
not based on anything is scary so okay
let me follow that logic then so get
worldview mm-hm
realize then based on worldview that
you're going to pick a path hmm that
leads to passion yeah I mean passion
will come I think I mean if you do
something you know when you do something
that you develop an expertise in you
know jewry Cal Newports book so good
they can't ignore you I'd I'd have it no
I think I judging by wasting now you're
gonna love it
yeah but he goes into that thing where
gaining mastery is a fundamental part of
passion and if you don't get mastery
good luck well that's I mean that's the
whole you know Jason Silva who we both
know and who is you know so intense and
so awesome he loves talking about flow
mmm and you know I love it as an idea
you know when you pick a lane for
yourself you'll develop a mastery you'll
you'll feel great about it if you have
to you course-correct
um but I don't think that it reveals
itself to you like something that was
waiting for you to find it that's where
people go wrong you've talked really
powerfully about your own
course-correction so really cool by the
way so for those of you don't know he
literally he creates a video for the
saying called the kind project making
desk for these underprivileged kids in
Africa the video is just a smash hit
starts getting a lot of attention gets
on the news goes to MSNBC literally live
in the broadcast one that says hey
somebody here should basically hire you
which they then do which is incredible
but then you realize not loving this
no I didn't and you know you know MSNBC
was great to me so I have to say that
first
and individual people there are
extraordinarily smart and very cool and
and all my bosses were great and that
experience was crazy because I was you
know work as a telemarketer selling car
warranties you know just absolutely
hating my life and and I made this one
video and Lawrence O'Donnell the host of
the last word which is the ten o'clock
show saw it had me on the air and then
the next day he was in Burbank and asked
me out for lunch and was and at that
lunch asked me if I wanted to move to
New York to work for the Wow
it's like would you like to do and I
don't know if he had the authority to do
it I don't think he's is they spent like
five months trying to build a job for me
there which I eventually took and um you
know when I got there I thought maybe
I'll like work my way through the ranks
here and find and find that this is what
I love
and then within I'd say a few months you
know it just it just sort of - started
to rub me the wrong way well so before
we just gloss on so walk me through the
the mindset so you're they're not loving
it a voice in your head is very much
saying this isn't for me
yeah most people stay there for years
years and years and I wouldn't leave
until someone kicks them out well I'd
sort of did I mean like here's the thing
is that what once I checked out of the
of you know being a good employee at the
company which is horrible to say but
that's that's the truth is I would spend
you know hours in an office hidden away
working on the nerdwriter
right during work now I don't suggest
that to people because they you want to
be a good employee but you know I had a
lot of free time there and so I was
thinking I have to double down on my
homework right right and so I just
started working on that show all the
time in the eyes you know I quit when I
thought that that MS embassy might be my
you know might be my path I sort of like
left the nerdwriter for a little bit of
for a few months but then when it was
not so great I started up again and I
was like hey I renewed my passion for
this and I worked and worked and worked
and then someone at Discovery saw a
video they just said we're launching a
new show called seeker daily and
would you be interested in writing the
show with a co-host and and hosting it
and launching it for us and I heard that
I felt the same way I felt like this
could be my path right you know and we
talked about sort of how does a show
scale I thought well maybe this is the
way maybe I leave the nerd writer and
and work for discovery where I'm like in
a higher leadership position my
editorial influence is greater you know
maybe I'm the voice behind this show and
I make it exactly what I want with the
resources of discovery mmm another
learning experience that wasn't the key
element
soon as I sort of checked out of there
and started phoning it in I started
paying a lot more attention to the nerd
writer and what I really wanted to do
yeah it's such a it's such a fascinating
thing and so we're sort of on opposite
sides of this right so I'm an employer
so I know what it's like to have a large
group of people and have this huge
enterprise that can only work if you can
find people that can feel they're most
alive right yeah and if there's one
thing I promise you it's that it works
for some people and other people [__]
hate it yeah right and so you're
constantly like Jesus what do I do
because you want people to be alive and
you want it to be the thing that they
want to do and you like what I always
told people is be here for the most
selfish reason ever like don't come to
work for me Yeah right like I'll think
about me I'll obsess about me what I'm
trying to do I'll make sure the
company's fine you come for you because
when somebody's in the room grinding it
out because their passion happens to
align with what the show needs to be
successful yeah unbelievably amazing
things happen so we were talking before
we came on camera about boil things down
to the physics right yeah and so the
physics of being a human is when you
feel connected to something when you
feel passionate it makes you feel alive
you want to do it right you're moving
towards something you know one has to
tell you to do it there's like this pull
through demand of this is my calling out
ever really so it's it's [__] tricky
right it's tricky on both sides of the
fence
because people like you say some aren't
built for that and for me like you know
I studied film and narrative filmmaking
and I thought I was gonna be a future
film director and one of the huge things
about filmmaking that makes it so great
that I hated was that it was
collaborative right okay so know thyself
know thyself all right so when I used to
direct short films I used to give the
speech to my whole crew and I was always
the director I say listen I'm gonna be a
dictator benevolent dictator here right
I'd love to hear what you say but I want
to make it very clear that I have the
final say on everything and this is my
vision that we're all helping to realize
my vision if that's not for you fine
like we can get onto another film but
I'm such a protective perfectionist
about my own work that I that I work
best when I am by myself doing a project
that's why I quit filmmaking and started
writing fiction because you do that by
yourself right
and now the nerd writer is a similar
thing which is which I only there's
nobody on the team it's just me
collaborative in my life with my
relationships right not in my work you
know in my life I let people in there's
a give-and-take I love people they love
me back it's a very you know very
integrated thing and so there's people
out there who you're never going to
convince to be a part of that larger
thing I think and that must be the most
difficult thing as a manager or a leader
of of a company because those people
need jobs to write you know what are
they gonna do yeah I mean that that's
really fascinating it's like parents
when they think about okay well the
techniques I used on child a worked but
the techniques I used on child a don't
work on child B yeah so now what so in
that and that was actually really
interesting so like my sister and I grew
up in the same household very different
outcomes so you know we had the same
parents but some things work really well
for me and then some things work really
well for her and but they weren't there
wasn't like a lot of crossover it's and
that's what it's like running a company
is your tech your natural techniques and
I think the goal of a leader has to be
to
and send your natural techniques to find
something like Pete Carroll's as a life
philosophy that allows you to figure
this stuff out and to tie it back to
what we were talking about with you know
cultivating a worldview you need a
filter right you need to know what to
say yes to and what to say no to whether
that's as a leader whether that's as an
employee whether that's as an artist or
just somebody trying to make it through
life figuring out like what decisions to
make right from a moral standpoint core
you need to you need to have that filter
but it is it is really difficult to when
you start talking about a mass of people
and this is what another thing we were
talking about off-camera is so I'm
looking at the nerdwriter and I'm
thinking [__] like this content is on
another planet like it's so good and I
could just sit there and watch it but
there the real question that you should
be asking is why do I think it's good
because it's going to be very different
for other people so for me usability is
all that matters
so I'm watching the content I'm saying
oh [__] like I can really use this piece
of information like you totally [__]
up my life you changed it in the most
beautiful and amazing way with the
Hemingway quote and the notion of what's
it can't Auggie config kansui thank you
yeah so I'm watching that episode about
kansui the record player of my life
Skip's
grinds to a halt I'm like this is
unbelievable yeah and the Hemingway
quote that you threw in which I had
never heard immediately put it on my
list of like life-changing quotes is
life breaks everyone and some are
stronger in the places that broke yeah I
was right quote whoa great writer walk
us through that concept that art form
what it is how its impacted you so
interesting because that's a video that
I've probably gotten the most personal
feedback about and the concept this is
sort of simple in Japanese culture they
have an art craft art called kansui
where when ceramics are broken they they
don't throw them out and buy another or
you know or create another one from
scratch they put the ceramic pieces back
together but the way that they had
it heats them is with gold a kind of
gold adhesive gold sparkly
you know it's almost like a mortar
material yes it's beautiful
and so you get these these pieces that
are broken but at the cracks are are
more beautiful and I thought that is
such you know a perfect metaphor and
it's not my metaphor because it it you
know it goes into the Buddhist concept
of wabi-sabi and but the idea that you
know we are going to go through trauma
and it's particularly relevant right now
I think in the post-election period we
are going to go through trauma but
trauma is an opportunity to change and
to reorganize the elements that made up
your life you know I gave a speech in
Singapore a couple weeks ago and you
know what I spoke about was that when a
person's mind is traumatized it's like
the story that they were telling
themselves has ceased to be persuasive
right and when a story stops being
persuasive it is disorienting and that I
think is what trauma is the period
between when you when your old story
breaks apart because of this last straw
on the camel's back thing I mean we're
going to continue to tell ourselves the
old stories until it's so glaringly
contradictory that it doesn't hold up
so traumas the period between when that
breaks down and when you from the pieces
of the old build something new and will
never glorify the trauma itself but
recognize that in that period you have a
very unique opportunity that will only
come along a handful of times in your
life to reorganize the story that you
tell about yourself to yourself so that
for me is what kansui is all about and I
think a lot of people just really
connected with that idea for sure
so the idea behind my entire life and
certainly the idea behind this show is
is that humans are constructed right
which is why I think Jason knew I would
resonate
with you the concept of cultivating
which it's that you say cultivating
worldview right so there's something so
active in cultivation it's it's choices
and you know you're talking about the
narrative and I've never heard anybody
say before the trauma is the moment
where your old story breaks down you
can't cling to it anymore and you have
yet to build the new one through kansui
that's [__] beautiful by the way and
thank you for that
thank you and I'm a big believer in you
have to open yourself up to being
changed that really changed me that's
really [__] cool yeah so thinking
about you know this notion of I'm going
to take an active role in in rebuilding
myself
yeah and doing it in a way that becomes
an art form like that's super super
interesting to me so I'm gonna wrap up
really fast why I brought that up but I
want to come back to it so I brought
that up just to talk about scalability
yeah so you're having this big impact on
people which i think is is important and
I think that we're living through a
revolution right now and the revolution
is that the medium is changing so much
that there are no gatekeepers anymore
yeah and the only gatekeeper is your
ability to get my attention yeah that's
that like when people really understand
what that means huge huge opportunity
that should not be glossed over yeah
yeah it's a pair of creators and so
you've risen up and there are other
people like I was born in this era yeah
for sure those reasons for sure then the
next question becomes so how do you
scale it like and and I asked it from
the position of somebody who wants you
to touch more life you know scaling for
me is the thing that I'm constantly
thinking about in the business I mean
90% of my mental energy is moot you know
going towards creating the videos which
is which is all I really want to do but
now that the business side has become
really all you want to do you just want
to create the videos yeah I mean I look
I'm a film director at heart like I'm a
creator at heart the impact that comes
out of it is it's still very important
to me and I try to engage with as much
as I can but the business side of it
particularly it makes me cringe a little
bit that said I do think about scaling
the show and what's the way for
word because I want to make the most
impactful work and so when I think of
scaling I think in that way yeah it's
interesting because I think that so you
and I look at the world in let's say if
we were Venn diagrams like there's
ninety percent overlap us watching your
content like yeah it's interesting to
like it's amazing like this guy's DJing
my brain it was like yes so much fun
yeah and then there's like this area
that does an overlap where we see things
really differently so when I look at
when I look at anything right the first
question I'm asking is scalability now
that speaks to my personality I speak to
my worldview not that objectively it's
right yeah so when I think about Steve
Jobs and Steve Wozniak right you had one
guy all he cared about was scale and
then you had the other guy who so
enjoyed the art of being on the
motherboard and wiring things together
that he actually asked to be a mid-level
engineer yeah like you own the company
and you remove asset last character even
now like the things that he sort of
toils away with Tweel towards 'we are
small but you know it's amazing we're
living through a time right now the
entrepreneurial generation yeah now to
really be an entrepreneur to be the lead
to be the Alpha in an entrepreneurial
organization is it takes a certain
personality type and not everybody's
going to enjoy it yeah and I think a lot
about my wife and I so my wife and I
co-founded the company she puts this
whole show together literally I am the
talent I'm not just saying that like I'm
the talent of her show but the show what
you see like that's her in the team yeah
so but I think about her personality
type she's no interest in leading right
yeah so she wants to follow my vision by
the way interesting there I mean it
speaks to your interest in Wozniak and
just the desire to really create and if
anything is I went to film school so I
used to want to be on set I wanted to
direct and then one day I think it was
my wife that asked me like would you
ever go back to directing I was like no
I could never do that
yeah and the reason that I couldn't go
back to directing is for me for my
personality type once you taste scale
there's no going back so like as you're
talking about nerdwriter and wanting it
to be less content and more impacting
like [__] yeah less content more impact
that's awesome
Evon on that and then I'm gonna have
somebody over here doing the daily
content cuz we got a like algorithm oh
yeah I think you got to stay on that
YouTube is changing right I hear that
and I might need to partner with a you
type figure in the future too you know
to do this but I so Seinfeld always says
like the relationship with the show was
so white-hot that he knew he had to stop
after nine seasons because they were
gonna offer him like a hundred million
dollars for season 10 and he just knew
that you a little bit of too much can
ruin a whole experience so I want to
make sure that I am doing things right
but I'm also you know not turning away
from the opportunities that are coming
up share you know a lot of
self-awareness if you had to teach
somebody how to be self-aware like that
what are the steps Oh God um that's a
good question uh you have to be brutally
honest with yourself I guess I mean you
know put yourself around the people who
will support the journey that you're on
for me like introspection is a one great
source of the content that I make you
know like a strategy for introspection
like do you put headphones on and listen
to the sound of the rain and like are
there things that you do to really
facilitate that or no I hate the rain no
uh I love the rain but I don't I mean
for me like there's always a
conversation happening in in your head
in my mind so it's like you know my
personal belief is that the you know the
mind is you know made up of language so
I am constantly you are constantly
telling a story to yourself about
yourself and about the world and it's
got those two facets if you just take
the time you can listen to it and make
it explicit that's what I do that is to
write it down right as you don't think
without writing there's no thought
without language so you have to make it
explicit you know when I was when I just
graduated school you know one of the
first incentives I read all the
philosophy that there was you know I
started from
the pre-socratics and I went all the way
down to the 20th century and tried to
just get all the big benchmarks and read
all the books with a particular vent for
Albert Camus if I remember yeah he was
that he was a he was a definitely a
watershed moment but I that wrote this
thing called a discourse on truth right
and I had I had it bound up Wow at
Kinkos and it looked really nice and I
had the perfect font and I got a four
paper and I I made like a hundred copies
of it and it was this like very
highfalutin kind of very pretentious Lea
worded thing that went through truth and
ways to know it and things like that
and I gave it to all my family and my
friends who are like you know what is
this thing you know this looks like he
just you know so but it was so important
for me and when you when you learn how
to to listen to your own story and write
it down
I think self-awareness is like an
inevitable byproduct of them because you
get addicted to knowing what you think
about something yeah I think this is
weird state we all have you know we're
operating on old memories and we're
operating on things that we read but we
haven't really like retained as soon as
you start transferring that whole messy
cloudy misty area of knowledge into
explicit knowledge you're going to start
seeing a lot more in yourself and what's
out there and so my advice is to write
just write and the rest will follow the
story that you were telling about the
journal that you wrote is what was it
the truth well the discourse on true
discourse on truth at all fine
bookstores yeah it's actually pretty
interesting in it it made me think about
how people because I I know what your
family was thinking when they read it
like Oh God right like it's pretentious
or graduated from school doesn't have a
job but he's gonna do this right but
here's the thing like when people see
little kids like learn how to walk and
like you know they stop peeing the bed
they're all my god right they're
ecstatic they're over the moon yeah but
we should be thinking the same thing
about intellect
jewelle development right because maybe
that was like a little cringe-worthy or
whatever but what it's actually a really
important exploration so I went through
a similarly cringe worthy worthy thing
in my late teens in high school when I
got really into Eastern philosophy yeah
and so like I know that I had the answer
for everything right yeah so be like
water my friend yeah you know I mean
like that kind of [__] and I remember
like I was convinced I was gonna go to
college get my degree is like the safety
net but then I was moving to the
wilderness in China dude and I am so
with you I had the same thing my man I
was like I got this boy I was like oh I
have to work my body out like I have to
be a farmer I went to work on a farm
nice like a few months Wow because I was
like the inevitable last step of this
journey that I have to go so I have to
do it and then I thought well I'll
probably have to just be a monk for 10
years and I was like considering the
ways of telling my family that I wasn't
be able to contact them because you know
in monk school yeah contacting a monk
school I like that that is bad it was a
farm I went to Normandy and France
through a program called help X which
was like you you know you live in
someone's farm and they feed you and
write work for them eventually I got
over that thank God but yes you actually
learned some lessons from that kind of
hard-ass work yeah you do you learn to
persevere through mmm you know through
pain you know because working working a
whole day moving branches or moving
heavy pieces of wood is so you know it's
so exhausting mmm and it I I what we
have people who do that for the whole
lives I only did it for a very short
period of time but it was very
illuminating in that way it's that you
you just have to keep working at it and
eventually you'll finish mmm
but that was a direct outgrowth of the
philosophy thing that we were talking
about it was like this is the path I
have to think that's really fascinating
so that's how I think of the gym by the
way for me it's definitely that yeah
when I was a kid I always had to have a
job during the summers and because I was
so insane
lazy I would take whatever job my
parents would get from me cuz I don't
want to go apply for a job so that meant
it was always manual labor so I worked
in a paint factory I did a paint store I
worked doing literal like hard labor
there was one summer all I was doing was
odd jobs so I spent some time
smashing concrete with a pickaxe and
like just doing all the stuff that is
your mind literally is if you have a
certain personality type and I think
that we share that like your mind is
just racing get me out of here or you go
into a Zen state right and you find this
way to separate your mind from your body
so that your brain can like go explore
go daydream be somewhere else be
creative while your body is is set to
this task but it's actually one of those
periods where your mind is a lot of
really productive thinking because you
so want to escape the reality of what
you're doing at that moment that the
only place to go is in and I actually
found so I loved your explanation about
write it down and makes a concrete and
it takes this sort of ephemeral mush and
turns it into into something very real I
felt that way about having manual labor
to do because my body was taken care of
there were no distractions oddly enough
there were no distractions from my
physicality
I was totally engrossed in this thing
right this amount of cement has to be
broken apart this vat of paint has to be
cleaned out like whatever it is you sort
of set your body to that task you read
Kurt Vonnegut of course all right so I
forget which story it's in but there's
one where the people can move their body
in a direction and then send their mind
in the opposite direction they can
actually exit their body which I always
bet regretted I felt so true to me yeah
because that was what manual labor was
for me I would send my body over here to
do something and then I would turn my
mind to this way to deal with some
intellectual pursuit some either film
idea or who knows but in doing that
really learning to to go deep it's why I
was asking you like what your process is
I thought one of the first questions I
wrote down that I wanted to ask you was
what is your process you've done such a
good job of taking a subject like
Rihanna's work work work work work song
like you've got all [__] like show
about that
I love that idea hi love how's this
happening he made a show he spent a week
on this song and it's really interesting
hardcore week how did you train yourself
to go deep like that I think when you
write a lot it makes it a little bit
easier to compose a story right so that
part of my brain is and mind is still is
you know primed for taking information
and composing it into something that is
persuasive and like a story so you know
every week or whenever I come up with
something for the nerd writer I you know
it's usually a combination of some kind
of introspective thought process that I
want to talk about and something from
the world that I have consumed that I
think is interesting and like talk about
ins like oh there's a there's a good
interaction between those two let's see
what I can do there so once I have that
which is the hardest part because ideas
are just a [__] then I research very
intensely for a week or two weeks
do you give intention to your
subconscious at all forget if it was a
set of maybe Einstein oh god it was one
of the like big scientists who said
never go to sleep without making a
demand of your subconscious I thought
wow this guy's accomplished a lot in his
life so I'm going to take that pretty
seriously well I mean there is a there
is a truth in that your mind works out
problems when you sleep so yeah a lot of
times I will be totally stuck on
something and go to sleep and wake up
next morning finding that I've solved
that that persuasive problem whatever it
is that's awesome yeah all right so
what's the impact that you want to have
with your life with my life um I don't
know I mean you said earlier in the
interview that you saw something that
was in one of my videos and it sort of
stopped during your tracks and helped
you think a different way like I've been
talking about a lot in this interview
you know for me we learned by saying not
thinking we learned by articulation and
articulation is
what makes the world go round right so
the impact I want to have is I want to
articulate things in such a way that
people actually view a different world
than they viewed before they heard what
I said about it you know because the
world and our minds are made up of
language and when you find a new way to
you know write that language you change
the world and you change people's minds
man thank you so much for coming here
those apps it's been awesome better than
it has been astok all right where can
these guys find you online you can go to
the nerd writer on YouTube if you just
type in the nerd writer in Google you'll
find it I have a Twitter as well but I
mean it's all happening at the nerd
writer show so watch it subscribe
alright guys be sure to do that you were
gonna want to go deep in this man's
world I promise you it doesn't matter
what you were interested in he has gone
down that rabbit hole and he has come
back with the nuggets of gold that you
need to understand in his words to open
a new door for you and show you things
in a totally new way to help you put
unique connections between things that
you never would have imagined before the
idea of actively cultivating your
worldview of building that platform and
translating it from clouds that really
feel like you're going to fall you're on
unstable ground and making it this
platform that's actually going to let
you find out what you want to do how to
move forward pivot if you're later in
your life it doesn't matter going in and
learning how to think learning how to
objectively critique these things and
really go in and discover a truth that
you don't see when you're skipping
across the surface and what I love is he
will do the profane the profound he will
go on pop music and make you realize
that there's a layer of depth and
interconnectivity that you never could
have imagined but then he'll also break
down Gotham City through the ages and
deal with comic books it is [__]
incredible
it is a whole universe unto this man and
the most amazing thing that you're going
to take away is you're going to realize
that there's a whole universe unto you
and he is going to help you tap into
that so subscribe
drink deeply of this man's stuff it is
unbelievably great Evan thank you so
much for coming on the show man it's my
pleasure please
give it up got you you know this is a
weekly show if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe we are trying to get
as many amazing people like this on the
show is humanly possible and if you rate
and review that will help us out so go
to iTunes stitcher let us know what you
think tell the world about the show and
until next time my friends be legendary
subscribe a lot of fun thank you
everybody thanks so much for joining us
for another episode of impact Theory if
this content is adding value to your
life our 1 ask is that you go to iTunes
and stitcher and rate review not only
does that help us build this community
which at the end of the day is all we
care about but it also helps us get even
more amazing guests on here to show
their knowledge with all of us thank you
guys so much for being a part of this
community and until next time be
legendary my friends
[Music]